Sports of all kinds play an important part in many people’s lives. There are several sports that are particularly popular in the UK. Many sporting events take place at major stadiums such as Wembley Stadium in London and the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff.

Sports play an important part in our life as our state of health depends on it. The sport helps to bring up physically strong, courageous, strong-willed and energetic people.

The UK has hosted the Olympic games on three occasions: 1908, 1948 and 2012. The main Olympic site for the 2012 Games was in Stratford, East London. The British team was very successful, across a wide range of Olympic sports, finishing third in the medal table.

The Paralympic Games for 2012 were also hosted in London. The Paralympics have their origin in the work of Dr Sir Ludwig Guttman, a German refugee, at the Stoke Mandeville hospital in Buckinghamshire. Dr Guttman developed new methods of treatment for people with spinal injuries and encouraged patients to take part in exercise and sport.

Cricket originated in England and is now played in many countries. Games can last up to five days but still result in a draw! The idiosyncratic nature of the game and its complex laws are said to reflect the best of the British character and sense of fair play. You may come across expressions such as ‘rain stopped play’, ‘batting on a sticky wicket’, 'playing a straight bat', ‘bowled a googly’ or ‘it’s just not cricket’, which have passed into everyday usage. The most famous competition is the Ashes, which is a series of Test matches played between England and Australia.

Football is the UK’s most popular sport. It has a long history in the UK and the first professional football clubs were formed in the late 19th century. England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland each have separate leagues in which clubs representing different towns and cities compete. The English Premier League attracts a huge international audience. Many of the best players in the world play in the Premier League. Many UK teams also compete in competitions such as the UEFA (Union of European Football Associations) Champions League, against other teams from Europe. Most towns and cities have a professional club and people take great pride in supporting their home team. There can be great rivalry between different football clubs and among fans.

Each country in the UK also has its own national team that competes with other national teams across the world in tournaments such as the FIFA World Cup and the UEAFA European Football Championships. England’s only international tournament victory was at the World Cup of 1966, hosted in the UKFootball is also a popular sport to play in many local communities, with people playing amateur games every week in parks all over the UK.Rugby originated in England in the early 19th century and is very popular in the UK today. There are two different types of rugby, which have different rules: union and league. Both have separate leagues and national teams in England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland (who play with the Irish Republic). Teams from all countries compete in a range of competitions. The most famous rugby union competition is the Six Nation Championship between England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, France and Italy. The Super League is the most well-known rugby league (club) competition. There is a very long history of horse racing in Britain, with evidence of events taking place as far back as Roman times. The sport has a long association with royalty. There are racecourses all over the UK. Famous horse racing events include: Royal Ascot, a five day race meeting in Berkshire attended by members of the Royal Family; the Grand National at Aintree near Liverpool; and the Scottish Grand National at Ayr. There is a National Horseracing Museum in Newmarket, Suffolk. The modern game of golf can be traced back to 15th century Scotland. It is a popular sport played socially as well as professionally. There are public and private golf courses all over the UK. St Andrews in Scotland is known as the home of golf. The Open Championship is the only ‘Major’ tournament held outside the United States. It is hosted by a different golf course every year. Modern tennis evolved in England in the late 19th century. The first tennis club was founded in Leamington Spa in 1872. The most famous tournament hosted in Britain is The Wimbledon Championships, which takes place each year at the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club. It is the oldest tennis tournament in the world and the only ‘Grand Slam’ event played on grass. Sailing continues to be popular in the UK, reflecting our maritime heritage. A British sailor, Sir Francis Chichester, was the first person to sail single-handed around the world passing the Cape of Good Hope (Africa) and Cape Horn (South America), in 1966/67. Two years later, Sir Robin Knox-Johnston became the first person to do this without stopping. Many sailing events are held throughout the UK, the most famous of which is at Cowes on the Isle of Wight.

Rowing is also popular, both as a leisure activity and as a competitive sport. There is a popular yearly race on the Thames between Oxford and Cambridge Universities. There is a long history of motor sport in the UK, for both cars and motor cycles. Motor car racing in the UK started in 1902. The UK continues to be a world leader in the development and manufacture of motor-sport technology. A Formula 1 Grand Prix event is held in the UK each year and a number of British Grand Prix drivers have won the Formula 1 World Championship. Recent British winners include Damon Hill, Lewis Hamilton and Jensen Button. Skiing is increasingly popular in the UK. Many people go abroad to ski and there are also dry ski slopes throughout the UK. Skiing on snow may also be possible during the winter. There are five ski centres in Scotland, as well as Europe’s longest dry ski slope near Edinburgh.

Cricket is played on village greens and in towns/cities on Sundays from April to August Teams are made up of 11 players each. They play with a ball slightly smaller than a baseball and a bat shaped like a paddle. Two batters stand in front of wickets, set about 20 metres apart. Each wicket consists of three wooden rods (stumps) pushed into the ground, with two small pieces of wood (bails) balanced on top. A member of the opposing team (the bowler) throws the ball towards one of the batters, who must hit the ball so that it does not knock a bail off the wicket. If the ball travels far enough, the two batters run back and forth between the wickets while the fielders on the opposing team try to catch the ball. The game is scored according to the number of runs, which is the number of times the batters exchange places.

Football is undoubtedly the most popular sport in England, and has been played for hundreds of years.

In the English Football League there are 92 professional clubs. These are semi-professional, so most players have other full-time jobs. Hundreds of thousands of people also play football in parks and playgrounds just for fun.

The highlight of the English football year is the FA (Football Association) Cup Final each May. The first set of laws of the game of football, or soccer as it is known in the US, date from the formation of The Football Association in England in 1863.
rugby Rugby

Rugby originated from Rugby school in Warwickshire. It is similar to football, but played with an oval ball. Players can carry the ball and tackle each other. The best rugby teams compete in the Super League final each September.

For many years Rugby was only played by the rich upper classes, but now it is popular all over the country. There are two different types of rugby - Rugby League, played mainly in the north of England, and Rugby Union, played in the rest of England, Scotland, Wales and Ireland. England, Scotland, Wales and Ireland, together with France and Italy, play in an annual tournament called the Six Nations.

American Football derived from our game of Rugby also Baseball derived from the old English game of Rounders. The world's most famous tennis tournament is Wimbledon. It started at a small club in south London in the nineteenth century. It begins on the nearest Monday to June 22, at a time when English often have the finest weather. Millions of people watch the Championships on TV live.

It is traditional for visitors to eat strawberries and cream whilst they watch the tennis.
Wimbledon is the oldest of all the major tennis tournaments beginning in 1877. The rewards of prize money began in 1968 when the total purse allocated was £26,150.
Netball is the largest female team sport in England. The sport is played almost exclusively by women and girls, although male participation has increased in recent years.
Over 3 million people participate in basketball in the UK.

Scotland is traditionally regarded as the home of golf. There are over 400 golf courses in Scotland alone. The most important golf club in Scotland is in the seaside town of St. Andrews, near Dundee.

Horseracing, the sport of Kings is a very popular sport with meetings being held every day throughout the year. The Derby originated here, as did The Grand National which is the hardest horse race in the world.

Horse racing and greyhound racing are popular spectator sports. People can place bets on the races at legal off-track betting shops. Some of the best-known horse races are held at Ascot, Newmarket, Goodwood and Epsom.

Ascot, a small town in the south of England, becomes the centre of horse-racing world for one week in June. It's called Royal Ascot because the Queen always goes to Ascot. She has a lot of racehorses and likes to watch racing.

Another equestrian sport is polo, brought to Britain from India in the 19th Century by army officers. It is the fastest ball sport in the world. Polo is played with four men on horses to a team. A ball is hit with a stick towards the goal, one at each end of a 300 yard long by 160 yard wide field... Table tennis was invented in England in 1880. It began with Cambridge University students using cigar boxes and champagne corks. Although the game originated in England, British players don't have much luck in international championships.

Badminton takes its name from the Duke of Beaufort’s country home, Badminton House, where the sport was first played in the 19th century.

In the nineteenth century, students at Oxford and Cambridge, Britain's two oldest universities, were huge fans of rowing. In 1829, the two schools agreed to hold a race against each other for the first time on the Thames River. The Oxford boat won and a tradition was born. Today, the University Boat Race is held every spring in either late March or early April.

Angling is one of the most popular sports in the UK, with an estimated 3.3 million people participating in the sport on a regular basis. Fishermen can be see sitting beside rivers and lakes. The two main forms of bowls are lawn flat green (outdoor and indoor) and crown green. Boxing in its modern form is based on the rules established by the Marquess of Queensberry in 1865. In the UK boxing is both amateur and professional, and strict medical regulations are applied in both.

Swimming is also a popular pastime and enjoyed by people of all ages.
Various martial arts, mainly derived from the Far East, are practised in the UK, such as judo and karate.

Darts is a very popular pub game. The game of darts, as it is today, was invented in the north of England in a town called Grimsby. However, the origins of the game date back to at least the Middle Ages.

The British are a sports-loving nation. Cricket, soccer, rugby, tennis, squash, table tennis, badminton, canoeing and snooker were all invented in Britain. The first rules for such sports as boxing, golf, hockey, yachting and horse-racing also originated from Britain. The most popular sports that people take part in, rather than watching, are angling, snooker and darts.

Cricket is very much the English game. A match can take five days - and still end in a draw. A form of cricket was being played 250 years ago.

Football began as a contest between neighbouring villages - with no limit to the number on each side, no fixed pitch and almost no rules. The Football Association drew up the rules of the modern game in 1863 and in 1888 12 clubs joined together to form the first Football League. England won the World Cup in 1966. Rugby and football became twro separate sports when the rules laid down by the Football Association said that only the goalkeeper could handle the ball. Two kinds of rugby are played in Britain. Rugby Union is played by amateurs in teams of 15 in the south of England and in Wales (where it is the national sport). Rugby League is played by professionals in teams of 13 in the north of England.

Golf was probably invented in Holland, but has been played in Scotland for at least 400 years. At first, it was played with balls made of wood, then of leather stuffed with feathers.

The first rules for tennis were drawn up by the All-England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club when it held its first tournament in the London suburb of Wimbledon in 1877. Wimbledon is still the world’s most famous tennis event.

There are a lot of sports and games which are popular both among youngsters and grown-ups. 25 million of grownup people take part in sports. Sports is on the programme of all state and private schools and universities. Nearly all schools have sports grounds and swimming pools. Indeed, sports is a part of everyday life in Britain.

In the USA many sports and sports activities attract millions of active participants. One reason of the popularity of sport in America may be the variety and size of America, providing Americans with a large choice of summer and winter sports. In addition, public sports facilities have always been available in great number for participants. Another reason might be that Americans like competition, by teams or as individuals, of any type. Others point out that American schools and colleges follow the tradition of all English-speaking societies in using sports activities as a way of teaching "social values".

In the USA much attention is given to organized sports. Hockey, football, baseball, basketball and volleyball are the five major sports.

Football is the most popular spectator sport. What makes football in the USA so different from its European cousins, rugby and soccer, is not just the size, speed and strength of its players. Rather, it is the most "scientific" of all outdoor team sports. Specific rules state what each player in each position may and may not do, and when. There are hundreds of possible "plays" (or moves) for teams on offence and defence. Baseball is now in second place among the sports people most like to watch. Baseball is still very popular as an informal, neighbourhood sport.

Baseball and football have the reputation of being "typically American" team sports. This is ironic because the two most popular participant sports in the world today are indeed American in origin-basketball and volleyball. Both games were invented and first played at a YMCA in Massachusetts. Basketball was invented as a game that would fill empty period between the football season and the baseball season. Today, of course, both basketball and volleyball are played everywhere by men and women of all ages. They are especially popular as school sports. Professional and collegiate basketball games in the USA attract large numbers of fans. Most of the important games are televised live.

Sporting activities are a part of daily American life. There are many other sports and sports activities in America which attract millions of active participants. Among them are golf, swimming, tennis, marathon, track-and-field, bowling, archery, skiing, skating, squash and badminton, rowing and sailing, weight-lifting, boxing and wrestling. 45% of all Americans take part in some athletic activity once a day. Swimming, bicycling, fishing, Jogging, callisthenics or gymnastics, and bowling are American's favourite participatory sports. Skating and tobogganing are wide-spread activities, too. Fishing and hunting are extremely popular in all parts of the country and have been since the days when they were necessary activities among the early settlers. As could be expected, all water sports and- activities are very popular, including diving, sailing, white-water canoeing, water-skiing.

There are also several sports in the US which were once thought of as being "strange", but have now gained international popularity. Among these is skate-boarding, wind-surfing and triathlon.
Americans' interest in sports seems excessive to many foreign visitors. Television networks spend millions of dollars arranging to telecast sports events. Publications about sports sell widely. In the US professional athletes can become national heroes.

Sports are associated with educational institutions in a way is unique. High schools have coaches as faculty members, and school teams compete with each other.Nowhere else in the world are sports associated with colleges and universities in the way they are in the States. College sports, especially football, are conducted in an atmosphere of intense excitement and pageantry. Games between teams attract nationwide television audiences. The sport that is most popular in most parts of the world - soccer - is not well known in the US. The most popular sports are American football and baseball, games that are not played in large number of countries.Sports play such an important role in American life that the sociology of sports, sports medicine, and sports psychology have become respectable specializations.Many Americans jog every day, or play tennis or bridge two or three times a week. They go on ski tri/ps and hunting expeditions that require weeks of planning and organizing. In the Americans' view, all these activities are worth the discomfort they may cause because they contribute to health and physical fitness. That is probably why Americans are known as a healthy nation.

Americans love to participate in and watch all different kinds of sports. Most Americans are introduced to sports at an early age, because all schools offer some physical education program. These programmes teach rules organization, history and popularity of many American sports and games inside and outside the country.

Since the late nineteenth century, baseball has been regarded as the national sport the USA. Football, basketball, and ice hockey are the country’s three other leading professional team sports. Football is now by several measures the most popular spectator sport in the United States. College football and basketball also attract large audiences.

Boxing and horse racing were once the most watched individual sports, but they have been eclipsed by golf and auto racing, particularly NASCAR. Soccer is played widely at the youth and amateur levels. Tennis and many outdoor sports are also popular. While most major U.S. sports have evolved out of European practices, basketball, volleyball, skateboarding, and snowboarding are American inventions Lacrosse and surfing arose from Native American and Native Hawaiian activities.

Universities offer the same kinds of sports as high schools. But they are more competitive. A person should be very talented to play on a university team. Often playing for a university team leads to a career in professional sports. Professional high school athletes may be given a special scholarship to a particular university (or Olympic training. In fact, eight Olympic Games have taken place in the United States The United States has won 2,191 medals at the Summer Olympic Games, more than any other country, and 216 in the Winter Olympic Games, the second most. Nearly all people of America get glued to their TV screens to watch the final competitions each year.

Sports play an important role in American society. They enjoy tremendous popularity but more important they are vehicles for transmitting such values as justice, fair play, and teamwork. Sports have contributed to racial and social integration and over history have been a "social glue" bonding the country together.


Early Americans like Benjamin Franklin and President Thomas Jefferson stressed the need for exercise and fitness promoting for example running and swimming. In the 20th century, American presidents Theodore Roosevelt, Dwight D. Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy continued to encourage physical activity.


President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports
President Dwight D. Eisenhower founded the President's Council on Youth Fitness in 1956 to encourage America's youth to make fitness a priority. The Council later became the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports, including people of all ages and abilities and promoting fitness through sports and games. Today, the Council continues to play an important role in promoting fitness and healthy living in America.

The United States offers limitless pportunities to engage in sports - either as a participant or as a spectator. Team sports were a part of life in colonial North America. Native American peoples played a variety of ball games including some that may be viewed as earlier forms of lacrosse. The typical American sports of baseball, basketball ad football, however, arose from games that were brought to America by the first settlers that arrived from Europe in the 17th century. These games were re-fashioned and elaborated in the course of the 19th century and are now the most popular sports in the United States. Various social rituals have grown up around athletic contests. The local high school football or basketball game represents the biggest event of the week for residents in many communities across the United States. Fans of major university and professional football teams often gather in parking lots outside stadiums to eat a "tailgate" picnic lunch before kickoff, and for parties in front of television sets in each other's homes during the professional championship game, the Super Bowl. Thousands of baseball fans flee the snow and ice of the North for a week or two each winter by making a pilgrimage to training camps in the South and Southwest to watch up close their favorate players prepare for the spring opening of the professional baseball season.

Individual competitions accompanied the growth of team sports. Shooting and fishing contests were part of the colonial experince, as were running, boxing, and horse racing. Golf and tennis emerged in the 1800s. Recent decades have given birth to a wide variety of challenging acitivities and contests such as sail boarding, mountain biking, and sport climbing, collectively referred to as "extreme sports".

Millions of people all over the world go in for sports. People in this country are sport-lovers, too. Many sports are popular in Russia, such as hockey, soccer, track-and-field, weightlifting, tennis, basketball, volleyball, figure-skating, cross-country skiing, swimming, shooting and many others. Sporting activities are a part of daily life in Russia. Most Russians growing up in the North, grow with outdoor winter sports and activities, such as skiing and skating. In all parts of Russia fishing is extremely popular. All water sports are wide-spread, including swimming, diving, sailing, water skiing, canoeing. In all schools there is a gym and a sports ground. Sports is a subject on the curriculum of all schools and universities.

Much attention is paid in this country to organized sports. There are different sporting societies and clubs in Russia. Many of them take part in different international tournaments and are known all over the world. A great number of our sportsmen participate in the Olympic Games. Russian athletes have won more medals than any other team in all Olympics since 1956. At the 1992 Barcelona Olympics the united teams of the former Soviet republics won 45 gold medals.

National and international matches are regularly held in Russia. They attract large numbers of fans. There is a lot of live broadcasting of matches and championships in this country. Many of them are televised live.

Sport in Russia has always been popular. Perhaps more then a half of Russians have tried some kind of sport in their childhood. Some of them even in several types.

So which sports are better developed in Russia? Here can be seen the following pattern. Russia, as a rule, has good results in classical kinds of sport. This is in some ways connected with the period of Soviet Union when big attention was paid to physical education of the youth. But the lessons of Soviet school didn’t go without any influence.

Quite often foreign sportsmen, lead by Russian trainers, appear on world level competitions. Also often you can see Russian sportsmen fighting of medals for other countries. That of course upsets Russian supporters. But they have already learnt to treat this with humour. There are many jokes about it. For example when you watch international competitions you hear that the trainers and the sportsmen easily understand each other because they all speak Russian.

In modern kinds of sport Russians lag behind their contenders a little. We can refer here curling, springboard jumping etc. Frankly speaking some Russians still can't see these activities as a serious kinds of sport. But the situation has been changing nowadays.

Actually, a healthy way of life is again coming into fashion in Russia today. That is why people have started to take an interest in sport. Even those who perceived it only as something that they could watch on TV, now come to gyms and swimming pools. That is why Russians are beginning to open to new kinds of sport. Let’s hope that this will reflect in results of different level competitions.

Tennis has a large popularity. Some people connect that with the fact that this sport was a hobby of Russian ex-president Boris Yeltsin. Today Russian tennis players are famous all over the world. Sharapova, Kurnikova, Kafelnikov, Miskina are only the best known Russian tennis players. They play wonderfully at Wimbledon and other competitions.

Ice-hockey is another one successful sport in the country. The Russian team takes worthy places in competitions. The traditions of Soviet school are kept here too. Though unfortunately it isn’t as strong as in the past. In USSR there was a period when hockey team won 9 world championships in a row. Furthermore, there are only 2 hockey players which became championship winners 10 times. These are Russian sportsmen Alexander Rogulin and of course Vladislav Tretyak. Nowadays there are also good players in Russian hockey. Many of them train in NHL.

Another sport which is widespread in the country is football. It’s strange but in Russia there are still many amateurs of this game. But unfortunately there are only few professionals. Russians have already thought up a lot of jokes about their football team. The fact is that Russia hasn’t got any prizes in this kind of sport for a long time. Some people even think it is remediless. Although football matches are always broadcasted on central TV and find their spectators.

An interesting peculiarity of Russian football is its multinational compound. Spartak, TsSKA, Zenit, Locomotive are names of best known football clubs. But if you listen to the information about the team compound in the start of the match it’s not very likely that there will be a half of Russian players there. Maybe that is one of the problems of Russian football. Perhaps it’s difficult for players just to understand each other. And football needs playing in a command.

And of course the favorite sport of many women is figure skating. This is a very beautiful show. And here Russia is still the leader. Though it has had very worthy rivals in the last years. For example Chinese sportsmen who to my mind have good perspective. But don’t forget about Russian figure skaters. Today they are favorites at any competition. Besides figure skating is quickly getting popularity in the country. New ice rinks are opened, parents take their children to sport schools.

Actually many kinds of sport are popular in Russia. Both on a professional level and on an amateur one. Ski sport and volleyball are good examples here.

We should say some words about Russian supporters. Here we can call it a kind of sport too. The sense of empathy is inherent to Russians. The team spirit lives in them. That is why they are always ready to root with pleasure for their compatriots. Russians prepare for going and supporting their favorite team in advance. They buy flags which sometimes achieve great sizes. On the scarves, caps and even on paces – everywhere it’ll be possible to see the colours of Russian flag.

When you watch the competitions of the international level on TV then you’ll here through the voice of commentator the tribunes scanning “Rossya! Rossya!”. And no matter where the match takes places in Russia or in 1000 km from it you’ll anyway hear this. Russians are ready to overcome big distance to see the performance of their sportsmen.

Maybe that is strange but cheerleading in Russia is absent. Only for last years under the influence of American films this idea has started to get into the youth’s heads. So I think this kind of sport will soon develop here too.

Sport has always been popular in our country. There are different sporting societies and clubs in Russia. Many of them take part in different international tournaments and are known all over the world. A great number of world records have been set by Russian sportsmen: gymnasts, weightlifters, tennis players, swimmers, figure skaters, runners, high jumpers. Our sportsmen take part in the Olympic Games and always win a lot of gold, silver and bronze medals.

Millions of people watch figure skating competitions, hockey and football matches, car races, tennis tournaments and other sports events. Certainly watching sports events and going in for sports are two different things.

In the past it was never admitted that professional sport existed in our country. The official point of view was that our sport was totally amateur. Now everybody knows that sport can be a profession and a business. But sport can be fun as well. Besides, it helps to stay in good shape, to keep fit and to be healthy.

Doing sports is becoming more and more popular. Some people do it occasionally — swimming in summer, skiing or skating in winter — but many people go in for sports on a more regular basis. They try to find time to go to a swimming pool or a gym at least once a week for aerobics or yoga classes, body building or just work-out on a treadmill. Some people jog every morning, some play tennis.

Russia's traditional popular sport is Bandy (informally called "Russian hockey"). It is considered by the country as a national sport, and is one of the biggest spectator sports. Although the modern rules of the game were written in England, Russians still claim to be the inventors of this sport.

Among the other most played sports in Russia are basketball, ice hockey, football, rugby league, handball, weightlifting, gymnastics, figure skating, biathlon, boxing, wrestling, martial arts, volleyball, rugby union, and skiing. See also the list the most popular internet searches for "sports" in Russia. Russian athletes have been very successful in the past, often competing on the world stage for the USSR up until the break up of the Soviet Union in 1991.

Lev Ivanovich Yashin nicknamed as "The Black Spider" was a Soviet-Russian football goalkeeper, considered by many to be the greatest goalkeeper in the history of the game. He was also vice president of the Football Federation of the Soviet Union. Andrey Sergeyevich Arshavin is a Russian professional footballer who plays for FC Zenit Saint Petersburg. He is an ex-captain of the Russian national team. Arshavin began his career at Zenit in the year 2000. He won numerous trophies with the club until his departure in 2009 including the Russian Premier League, Russian Premier League Cup, Russian Super Cup, UEFA Cup and the UEFA Super Cup.

One notable international sporting events recently held in Russia were the 2014 Winter Olympics and Paralympics, and the 2018 FIFA World Cup.

Below are details of sports, sporting events and sports people related to Russia.Can you give a description to the word "sport"? Sport is an organized, competitive, entertaining and skilful activity, which requires following some certain rules. It is an integral part of our life. It is very popular among people of all nationalities and different age groups. Sport helps us to be in good form, to keep fit, it makes us more organized, disciplined and strong-willed.

Russia is a country famous for its outstanding brilliant sportsmen, especially in winter kinds of sport. Russian teams take worthy places at world championships in ice hockey as well as in figure skating.

Sport has become very popular among young generation, since from early childhood children are trained to sport life. Russian schools and universities offer students a wide choice of sporting activities. It can be tennis, table tennis, volleyball, basketball, swimming, football, judo, boxing and others. There are a lot of sport clubs in Russia specialized in various sports, which admit children and teenagers. Many members of such clubs take part in numerous competitions, struggle for medals. Sports of all kinds play an important part in many people’s lives. There are several sports that are particularly popular in the UK. Many sporting events take place at major stadiums such as Wembley Stadium in London and the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff.

Russian people like to do many different sports. In summer they usually swim a lot, roller-skate and ride a bicycle. All sports grounds are crowded with football lovers. But winter sports are closer to Russian people. As soon as the first snow falls, nearly all the livers of the country take their cross-country skis and lay out a ski trail.

Young sportsmen adore snowboarding and Alpine skiing. Ski resorts all around the country become more and more popular, especially among the youth. It's not enough for snowboarders just to be able to surf down the slide. It's a must for every respected boarder to show at least 5 different stunts, otherwise he or she would not be considered "cool". There is nothing more attractive for Russian people in winter than skiing for the whole day and then sitting with friends, chatting and drinking hot tea. The equipment for Alpine skiing and snowboarding is quite expensive, but young sportsmen use the equipment that they rent at the ski resorts.

You can't forget about another favourite winter sport of the Russians — it is skating and particularly figure skating. Nowadays many people attend outdoor or indoor skating-rinks where they can skate even in summer.

Russian people are ardent fans of extreme sports. For the last several years there occurred a new youth passion for elastic bungee jumping. You jump off a bridge or a building and fall down to the ground, but just before the moment you hit the water or the ground, an elastic rope pulls you back. There is a similar kind of sport called skysurfing. In this case, you jump out of an airplane, which is flying at the height of about 5 km, and fall down using a special board to "surf" the air.

There is a great number of fitness centres all over Russia. A year ticket to one of such centres may cost about 10.000 roubles.

Having your personal card, you have a possibility to use all offered facilities and attend all the classes included in the program. It may be everything from a simple gym equipped with a lot of up-to-date gym apparatus to some dancing classes or a swimming pool.

But still many people watch sport programmes on TV and are sure that they can be called sport-lovers. Some of them are keen on attending football and hockey matches at the stadium in order to feel a unique atmosphere. There is a huge amount of football fans in Russia. The sense of empathy is very common for Russian people. The team spirit lives in them, that is why they are always ready to support their compatriots at any championship. Although there are many good professionals in such famous football clubs as Zenit, Spartak, Rubin and Locomotive, their achievements are not very great, but even this fact can't influence the fans' attitude to their favourite teams.

Sport is probably as old as the humanity itself. All over the world people of different ages are very fond of sports and games. Firstly, sport helps people to become strong and to develop physically. Secondly, it makes them more organized and better disciplined in their daily activities. Also sport keeps your mind healthy. Sport helps people to keep in good health. We all need to exercise. Regular exercises give you more energy. Exercises make you feel and look better. The best exercises are: walking, jogging or swimming. Among the sports popular in our country are football, basketball, swimming, volley-ball, ice hockey, tennis, gymnastics, figure skating. A person can choose sports and games for any season, for any taste.

As for me, I like sport. I like tennis, swimming, basketball, football, valley-ball. But my favorite sport is football. Of course, I buy the sports magazines and newspapers, for example: "Sport Express", or "World soccer". I like football in our country, because I live in Russia, but Spanish Premier League I like more. However, I think our football is not less strict and beautiful. By the way football is a team kind of sport. It is a sport played between two teams of eleven players with a spherical ball. The object of the game is to score by driving the ball into the opposing goal. In general play, the goalkeepers are the only players allowed to touch the ball with their hands or arms, while the field players typically use their feet to kick the ball into position, occasionally using their torso or head to intercept a ball in midair. The team that scores the most goals by the end of the match wins. If the score is tied at the end of the game, either a draw is declared or the game goes into extra time or a penalty shootout, depending on the format of the competition. I like this game because it is beautiful, interesting and really fast. Perhaps that's why football is so popular nowadays.

Talking about whether I would watch some sport competitions on TV or participate in it I would say that watching them on TV is fine but personally I would of course try to participate in some sport activities since it's much funnier than just watching it. Also it will help me to keep my body in a good shape and to keep me fit and energized.

People all over the world are fond of sports and games. Sport makes people healthy, keeps them fit, more organized and better disciplined. It unites people of different classes and nationalities.

Many people do sports on their personal initiative. They go in for skiing, skating, table tennis, swimming, volleyball, football, bodybuilding, etc. All necessary facilities are provided for them: stadiums, sport grounds, swimming pools, skating rinks, skiing stations, football fields. Sport is paid much attention to in our educational establishments. Gymnastics is a part of children's daily activity in the kindergartens. Physical culture is a compulsory subject at schools and colleges.

Professional sport is also paid much attention to in our republic. There are different sporting societies clubs and complexes. The most famous of them are the Olympic complexes "Luzhniki", "Dynamo" stadium, etc. They are used for international and world competitions.

Practically all kinds of sports are popular in our republic but football; gymnastics and tennis enjoy the greatest popularity.

As for me, I go in for swimming. It needs mobility, liveliness and much energy. It keeps a person in a good form. I have been swimming for a 5 years. I get a real joy taking part in competitions or a simply swimming with my friends. Certainly, it`s a great distance between my manner of swimming and such favorites as Popov, but I do my training with great pleasure and hope to swim well as our best swimmers do.

Extreme sports are nontraditional sports and activities that require participants to combine athletic skill with pronounced risk.
An extreme sport is a popular term for certain activities which have a high level of danger. These activities often involve speed, height, a high level of physical training. We can call many kinds of sports extreme ones. Extreme sports are rarely sanctioned by schools.
Usually athletes don't have a coach or may hire him later. People in extreme sports complete not only against each other, but also against weather and difficulties and conditions of exact kind of extreme sport.
There are many extreme sports that take place in air, land, and water. For example there are some of them: ski jumping, sky diving ,sky surfing, sky flying, indoor climbing, BMX (bicycle motocross), mountain biking, mountain boarding, skateboarding, snowboarding, powerboat racing, surfing, whitewater kayaking, windsurfing. All these sports need to have special equipment and glasses.
For surfing we need a surfboard and swimming kits. For snowboarding we need a snowboard and special boots to fix them on the board and a suit and also sunglasses that help to look at the snow and a helmet. For BMX sport you need a special not high bike with small wheels. Sportsmen can dress fashionably, usually in shorts and a T-shirt,trainers, if they want they wear a cap.
We can be sure that many new extreme sports will appear soon. Every year more and more people are interested in extreme sports and take active part in them. I'm sure that soon extreme sports will be on a high level

If you want to keep fit you must go in for one kind of sport or another.

Sport is an essential part of my daily life. Every morning all the year round I do my morning exercises. Almost every day I do some training. In summer I go swimming or rowing. During my summer holidays I go on hikes. I usually spend my winter holidays in the country where I ski, skate or toboggan.

I also go in for track-and-field (athletics) events. Different sports and games are popular with my classmates. All my friends go in for different kinds of sport, such as water polo, gymnastics, horse-racing, wrestling, fencing, weightlifting, boxing, ice-hockey, speed-skating, figure-skating, football, basket-ball, volley-ball, etc.

We have fine teams at our school and different kinds of competitions take place there. The boys of my school are crazy about football, they play football and the girls are football fans. The girls never miss a single match played by school teams.

And now a few words about our physical training lessons. In winter our physical training lessons are held out-of-doors. We go skiing or skating. When it is cold outside P.T. lessons are held indoors, in our school gymnasium. We play different team-games such as basket-ball or volley-ball. Besides we have some training in gymnastics.

In autumn and in spring, when the weather is warm we have P.T. lessons at our school stadium. My school has a sports day once a year in late spring. On this day we have no lessons. Practically all kinds of sports are popular in our republic but football; gymnastics and tennis enjoy the greatest popularity.

All the competitors change into their sports clothes, the spectators find their seats round the track ready to cheer. All the events take place at the same time. This day is a great success every year. Even if the weather is not warm, we enjoy ourselves just the same.

A lot of Australians think you shouldn't worry too much about life.

But some things in life are really important, and to many Australian men, one of these things is sport. It's something they don't joke about. Sport matters. In pubs, clubs and even at work you'll often find men who can talk about only one thing — sport.

Australians are lucky. They have a perfect climate, and an endless amount of land. They have wonderful waves f 01 surfers on their beaches. They also have a strong wish to win. Put these together and you get a lot of good sportsmen and women. In fact, Australia has a very high number of world champions, in all kinds of sports, for a country of only 16 million people.

Around the country you'll find plenty of opportunities to enjoy squash, tennis, trail riding (horse or motorcycle), fishing and so on. Surfing is almost a religion for many Australians who follow the waves around the country and there are a number of important surfing contests.

You'll find football of assorted types including the unique Australian Rules Football. Then, there's motor racing and motorcycle racing, horse racing, yacht racing, cricket matches and lots more.

The best thing, of course, is to play sport yourself. But if you can't, or you don't want to, then you can watch other people doing it. Every year, more than 100,000 people go to the final of Australian Rules Football. Crowds of more than 90,000 watch the big cricket matches against India, Pakistan, New Zealand and England.There are sport happenings and holidays in Australia year round. Here are some of them.

In June in Darwin the Beer Can Regatta takes place when there are boat races for boats constructed entirely out of beer cans — there are plenty of those in the world's beer drinking capital.

In August in the Northern Territory camel racing is on in Alice Springs, arid then the Apex Rodeo is held, one of the biggest rodeo in Australia — the town fills up with cowboys.

Meanwhile in Sydney, Australians biggest race takes place with 25,000 competitors running the 14 km from Hyde Park to Bondi Beach in the city ace. It is a public holiday in Victoria but the whole country shuts down for the three minutes or so which the race takes.

In December the Sydney-Hobart Yacht Race starts on the 26th, a fantastic sight as the yachts stream out of the harbour and head south.

By way of introduction I would like to say that The Olympic Games are one of the most spectacular reminders of the debt we owe to the Greeks. The original Olympic Games were held every four years in honour of Zeus, the supreme god of Greek religion. The first record of the games dates from 776 B.C., but it is certain that they existed prior to that. The Olympic festival was a great unifying bond between the Independent city-states of Greece. The important sports in the original Olympic Games were running, jumping, wrestling, throwing the discus and throwing the javelin.

Passing on to present days I should note that even though the modern Olympic Games embrace the whole world, the connection with Greece is still very strong. A lighted torch is brought all the way from Greece, carried by a relay of runners, in order to light the Olympic Flame which bums all through the Games.

Nowadays the Olympic games are one of the most important sports events in the world while the Olympic movement has become an enormous and expensive organization. It's controlled by the International Olympic Committee, which consists of members from all the participating countries. The IOC is based in Lausanne, Switzerland. It chooses the locations of both summer and winter games. It also controls the rules of the competitions and selects new Olympic sports. The famous flag of the IOC has five rings linked together on it. They are of five different colours which represent five continents.

Obviously, taking part in the Olympics is every professional sportsman's desire, whereas winning this competition is considered by many the peak of professional sportsman's career. However participating in the games is important and prestigious not only for sportsmen but for countries as well. So the Olympics as any international event is an opportunity to show political position and power.

Speaking about undersides of this phenomenon I can't but mention excessive political involvement and doping.
The most famous political involvement was by the German Nazis, in the 1936 Berlin's Summer Olympics. They used it as a platform to spread their ideas. Moreover, in 2004 Iran had ordered their athletes not to participate in any Olympic semi finals or finals, which had participants from Israel.

Doping is another serious problem of the Olympic games. It was at the start of the twentieth century that the Olympics participants started using drugs to better their performance. Unfortunately, even though tough laws against sportsmen taking drugs were created, the desire to win is still stronger than common sense and risk of being excluded from the competition.

In conclusion, I would like to say that the Olympic games are one of the greatest and most spectacular international events. Despite the fact that countries and their representatives compete, the Olympics have always been the symbol of peace and unity. I believe that this idea should be preserved, while any non-sport propaganda should be restricted.The Olympic Games are one of the most spectacular reminders of the debt we owe to the Greeks.

The important sports in the original Olympic Games were running, jumping, wrestling, throwing the discus and throwing the javelin. Only men competed and they wore no clothes in order to have greater freedom of movement. Each competitor had to take the Olympic Oath - a promise to behave in a sportsman-like fashion. The Olympic Games are one of the most spectacular reminders of the debt we owe to the Greeks.

The modern Olympic era began in 1894 when Frenchman Baron Pierre de Coubertin decided to revive the ancient Greek tradition of celebrating health, youth and peace with a sports festival. Baron de Coubertin created the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the first modem Olympiad took place in Athens in 1896. Since then the Olympic Games have been held every four years with only two exceptions because of the two world wars.

Even though the modern Olympic Games embrace the whole world, the connection with Greece is still very strong. A lighted torch is brought all the way from Greece, carried by a relay of runners, in order to light the Olympic Flame which bums all through the Games. As in ancient Greek times, the competitors still take the Olympic Oath. The long-distance race is still called the Marathon. Marathon was a village about 26 miles from Athens. In the year 490 BC the Greeks defeated a powerful Persian army at that spot. After the fierce day's fighting a soldier volunteered to bring news of the victory to the anxious citizens of Athens. He ran all the way and after gasping out the message. "Rejoice, we conquer!" he collapsed and died.

One important rule of the Olympic Games is that the competitors must be amateurs. This rule has been under a lot of pressure in recent years because modem sport is so professional and competitive. Athletes train for years to take part in the Olympics and some countries spend much more than others on equipment and facilities. But despite these pressures, the amateur rule remains.

In modern times the Olympic movement has become an enormous and expensive organisation, It's controlled by the International Olympic Committee, which consists of members from all the participating countries. The IOC is based in Lausanne, Switzerland. It chooses the locations of both summer and winter games (both take place once very four years, with winter games half a year before summer Olympiads). It also controls the rules of the competitions and selects new Olympic sports. The famous flag of the IOC shows five rings of different colours linked together. The rings represent the five continents.

They say, "Health is above wealth." One of the first duties we owe to ourselves is to keep our bodies in perfect health. If your body suffers from any disorder, our mind suffers with it, and we are unable to make much progress in knowledge, and we are unfit to perform those duties, which are required of us in social life.

There are certain laws of health which deserve particular attention and they are so simple that even a child can learn them. A certain amount of exercise is necessary to keep the body in perfect condition. All the powers (mental and bodily) we possess are strengthened by use and weakened by disuse. Moderation in eating and drinking, reasonable hours of labour and study, enough sleeping time (not less than 7-8 hours a day), regularity in exercise, recreation and rest, cleanliness lay the foundations for health and long healthy happy life.

Thousands of people consider sports to be very helpful in gaining good health. That's why every country pays much attention to developing sports. It is sport that helps to bring up physically strong, strong-willed, courageous and energetic people.In the last ten years recreational sport has become extremely popular, and, according to doctors is absolutely essential for a long and healthy life.

The reasons of this enormous interest in sport of all kinds are varied. When you ask people why they spend so much time, effort, and sometimes money, they will talk about the physical benefits (feeling fit, increasing stamina, sleeping better, the chance of living a more active life), psychological benefits (self-discipline and respect, a sense of personal achievement, relaxation, getting rid of aggression), and the social advantages (meeting people with similar interests, the team spirit). However, the social aspect seems to be more important for men than for women. Very often, enjoying a drink with friends after the match is as important for the former as a physical activity itself. The latter generally see sport as a way of keeping fit rather than anything else.

Of course, some people don't consider sport to be a hobby; it is an everyday work for them. Much is spoken now about problems in professional sport. There is a lot drug taking in sport. There is too much pressure on young sports people. Mountaineering and air sports such as hang-gliding, each kill at least 16 people every year. In one Sports Council study of 28,000 people, football was found responsible for more than a quarter of 2,000 injuries seen every year. But still many people are involved in professional sport and millions of people can not live without it. They prefer watching sporting events rather than taking part in them. They are so-called sport-fans. They pack stadiums during sport matches and competitions, they sit glued to the TV, and they are ready to give every moral support to their favourite sportsmen or teams.

In the meantime thousands of ordinary people devote their spare time to going in for sports. They play indoor and outdoor games: volleyball, basketball, table tennis, hockey, lawn tennis. The number of participants and spectators show that the most popular games are basketball, hockey and, of course, football. A lot of people go in for track-and-field athletics, cycling, boxing, wrestling, gymnastics and so on.

Hockey, figure skating, skiing and skating are among the most popular winter sports. In summer swimming is enjoyed by millions of people. There are also many indoor swimming pools, which makes swimming possible all the year round. Cycling is a useful exercise, too, because it takes you out into the fresh air and gives much work to all the muscles. So if you arrange your day correctly you can find an opportunity for sports.

Physical training is an essential part of young people's development. All pupils and students have regular training at PT lessons. These classes are enjoyed by everybody as they give a lot of energy, develop muscles, make pupils strong, quick and healthy. From time to time different kinds of competitions are organized at school or between schools. The most popular sports at school are basketball, football and volleyball. Besides, pupils and students attend a lot of sports clubs and sports sections after classes, where they take up their favourite kind of sport.

Indeed, sport is a part of everyday life of many generations all other the world. So if you think that physical fitness and health are important you are to go in for sports.

There are many public houses in London and elsewhere, where beer, wine and spirits may be bought and drunk at certain times of the day. These are suitable for all classes of the community and provide a place, where people may meet together and talk, and perhaps play at darts or other games, as well as drink.

In the bar of every English "pub" there is a dartboard, and on most evenings the game of darts is being played. This is a traditional English game. The first record of something like the modern game appears in a sixteenth century. In this tournament people threw missiles in a target by hand, instead of using a bow.

The dartboard has numbered sections and the score depends on the section in which the dart lands. The darts are small, about 12 cm long, and have a steel point, a metal body and the three feathers. A set of three darts is used and each player throws them in turns. Expert players usually have their own private set of darts, but pubs always provide a set for occasional players. If you hit the very middle - you hit the bull's eye, which give you the highest score.

Pubs are really an essential part of English life. Most customers in the smaller pubs play games such as dominoes, darts or snooker. Snooker is a variation of billiards played with 15 red balls and 6 variously colored ones. And in many local pubs there are the teams of players of snooker who play matches against teams from other pubs. The idea has developed so far that there are even national championships in snooker and darts.

The biggest country in the world offers a striking variety of landscapes and weather conditions. Here you can find arctic zones, covered with ice and snow all-year round, huge virgin pine forests, inaccessible rugged mountains, endless plains and sandy beaches with lush subtropical vegetation. This diversity creates opportunities for almost all known sports activities – from swimming and watersports at the seaside through hiking and cycling along the roads that reach the horizon to skiing in all seasons in Siberia and the Caucasus Mountains. Cruising is also very attractive to tourists in Russia, as it allows them to explore some of the most beautiful and important cities and cultural sites in the world.

Hiking
Hiking is an enjoyable activity for both nature lovers and athletes, giving a unique chance to get close to nature and explore the vast country in an incomparable way. Russia has an abundance of hiking trails and paths that will satisfy every taste. Mount Elbrus is one of Russia's favorite hiking trails, rising to more than 5,500 metres above sea level. The trail has two cable lifts and special permission has been needed since 2004. Due to the difficulty of the terrain, the hike is possible only if tourists are organised by a hiking club that provides an experienced and knowledgeable guide. The Kamchatka Peninsula is another breathtaking destination for hiking trips with Kronotsky Nature Reserve, the Geyser Valley and the active volcano Karymsky being the main points of interest. Other remarkable hiking routes in Russia include the mounts Iremel and Taganai in Southern Ural, the Khibiny Mountains located 150 kilometres north of the Polar Circle and numberless paths in the Siberian taiga.

Cycling
Russia provides a wide range of cycling opportunities for tourists of all tastes and physical conditions. The enormous country has a network of cycling trails, but more common is travelling on two wheels using the roads with less traffic in the countryside - especially east of Ural. Two of the Eurovelo international cycle routes pass through Russian territory. The Capitals Route starts in Moscow and leaves Russia near the town of Smolensk, heading for Galway in Ireland. The Baltic Sea Cycle Route is a closed circuit along the coast of the Baltic Sea and passes through St Petersburg and its surroundings. There are some attractive tours that deserve attention, like the 650 kilometre-long Golden Ring to the northeast of Moscow and the tour of Karelia. Apart from biking pleasure, they provide encounters with Russian culture, history and architecture.

Swimming
Russia has an extremely long coastline, but only a negligible part of it is suitable for swimming or other watersports. The Black Sea coast in the southwestern end of the country has been the leading seaside holiday destination from the time of the USSR, when the elite of the country used it as a place for summer relaxation. Today, the region, with its centre Sochi, is far from its old fame and glamour, but is still the major Russian seaside resort. Swimming conditions are very good with high water temperatures and the saltines being twice lower than in the ocean. Countless swimming opportunities are available in the interior in the country – clean lakes and rivers with sandy beaches and copious public swimming pools and aqua parks in larger cities. Typically, the main Russian activity is ice diving – one of the most extreme activities known. It can be practised in the White Sea, which is always covered with at least a one metre crust of ice. Specialised diving clubs organise the dives and provide everything necessary.

Cruising
Russia is among the most attractive cruising destinations worldwide. Hundreds of different itineraries are available along the Baltic Sea, Black Sea, Volga River and the dense network of canals and waterways, especially in the European part of the country. A truly unforgettable experience is the 13-day cruise from Moscow to St Petersburg aboard the luxurious cruise ship "The White Nights" along the Imperial Russian Waterways. The Peter Tchaikovsky Cruise from Moscow to Perm is a great adventure for music experts. Cruises from Moscow to Rostov and around Kamchatka and the Kuril Islands are also worth experiencing.

Rafting
Rafting trips in Russia will give you the chance to explore the landscape along some of the most beautiful waterways to be found in this country. The trips are typically hosted in remote wilderness areas with limited access, including Karelia, the Altai Mountains, parts of Siberia, and the Lake Baikal region. Most of them are suitable for both keen beginners and skilled rafters. Rafting tours are organised by local adventure travel agencies, which often combine rafting with other extreme activities, such as canoeing and canyoning, to provide tourists a never-ending adrenaline rush.

Skiing
Russia has great potential for a skiing holidays. The country boasts more than 100 ski areas of various type and quality. In response to the increasing demand, a few first-class ski centres with modern facilities have been built. Mount Elbrus offers the highest peak and year-around skiing. The peaks can be reached by cable car or helicopter, making easy access to amazing heights. Cheget is another very popular ski resort. Located in the Caucasus Mountains it has five runs that challenge even the most experienced skiers. The Volen Sport Park is also a great place for skiing and is only 60 kilometers from Moscow. There are six slopes catering to different needs, as well as elevators and equipment hire. Southern Ural and the Baikal Lake region offer perfect off-piste and cross-country skiing.

Golf
Golf is a relatively new leisure activity in Russia, but is rapidly gaining popularity. The country has many suitable locations for this game – endless plains and fields, green forests and crystal-clear lakes create an attractive setting for playing golf. There are numerous golf courses where keen golfers can pursue their passion while enjoying the fascinating Russian nature. The most famous clubs that provide excellent courses, equipment, lessons and accommodation are the Moscow City Golf Club, the Le Meridian Moscow Country Club and the Moscow Golf Club in Krylatskoe. Professional golf tournaments are held here, like the Russian Open, as a part of the European Tour.

Nowadays, sport is an important thing in the people's life. Some people prefer to watch different sports events, others choose to take part in the sport games. Millions watch them on television.
The most popular sports are football, hockey, basketball, tennis, and motor racing. Many people enjoy watching these competitions. World Football, Hockey and Basketball Championships attract people from all over the world. It is wonderful that television is bringing all kinds of sports to our homes. Sometimes I go to the stadium to watch a game, but more often I stay at home and watch matches on TV.

Sport is the best and the shortest way to get more healthy. Everyone should do all he can to stay healthy and choose the sport he is interested in. I do not understand people who say that they like sport, but they only watch sport on TV. Many people can play sport games and do it in local clubs and parks. Usually they play football, badminton, tennis.

Playing games has more advantages than watching sports competitions. And only the individual has the right to decide what is better for him.
Whoever goes in for sports he feels much better, looks much better, sleeps much better.

The Olympic Games are an international sports festival that began in ancient Greece. In those days Greek games took place every four year. They included not only sports competitions but also competitions in music, oratory and theatre performances.

The earliest information about the Olympic Games goes back to 776 BC. The ancient Olympics had only a footrace or a race for runners of about 183 metres. Only men could compete or watch the games. During the games there was peace in the country. The winners of the games became national heroes.

Russia twice honored to hold the Olympic Games. Twenty-second Summer Olympics were held in Moscow in 1980. Moscow Olympics symbol became Olympic Mishka. The motto was "Faster, Higher, Stronger" logotype - treadmills rush upward, which is crowned by a five-pointed star. Twenty-second Winter Olympic Games were held in Sochi. The motto was "hot. Winter. Your". Talisman - Leopard, white teddy bear, bunny. Logotype consists of a mirror reflects symbols and Sochi 2014 in the extension of each other, the element " .ru " and the Olympic rings.

Baseball is the most popular game in the US. It is played throughout the spring and summer by schools, colleges and professional teams.

Football is the most popular game in the autumn. There are professional football teams in all the main cities of the United States. In American football there are eleven players in each team, as in the original football, but the rules are different. Players are often hurt in American football. So the teams wear special clothing and helmets as in hockey.

Basketball is a very popular game in the United States too. It is especially popular in high schools, both among boys and girls.

The game of golf is very popular with businessmen and professional people. It is played by both men and women. There are now more golfers than tennis players.

Swimming, water skiing and skin diving are popular summer sports. In winter many people go in for ice-skating, skiing and hockey if they live in the Northern and Central states.

Other sports include wrestling, boxing and horse racing.

Long ago ancient Greeks often waged wars. Small states suffered and lost much even if they did not take any side and stayed out of wars. The ruler of such a small state, Elis, wanted to live in peace with all neighbours. He was a good diplomat because his negotiations were successful and Elis was recognized a neutral state. To celebrate this achievement, he organized athletic games.

In the beginning this feast lasted one day, but later a whole month was devoted to it. All wars and feuds were stopped by special heralds who rode in all directions of Greece.

The games were held every four years in Olympia on the territory of Elis. The first games which later were called the Olympic Games were held about a thousand years before our era.

Usually the Olympic Games began before the middle of the summer. Best athletes arrived from many Greek states to Olympia to compete in running, long jumps, throwing of discus and javelin and wrestling. In the course of time fist fighting (boxing) and chariot races were also included in the Games.All athletes took an oath that they had been preparing for the Games and promised to compete honestly and keep the rules of the sacred Olympics. The athletes took part in all kinds of competitions. Winners were called "olympionics", they were awarded olive wreaths and cups of olive oil. This tradition has survived. In our time sportsmen often get cups and wreaths for winning the first place in sports competitions.

The olympionics of ancient Greece became very popular. Best craftsmen were chosen to make honourary cups, many poets wrote and recited in public poems about the best athletes. Sculptors made their statues which were put up at the birthplace of the winners.The Olympic Games were accompanied by arts festivals. Poets recited their poems, singers sang hymns, dancers danced and orators pronounced speeches — all this in honour of the sacred Games.

Only men could take part in the Olympic Games. Women were not allowed even to watch the competitions at the stadium under the fear of death penalty. There was a single exception, when a woman coached her son and accompanied him to the stadium in men's clothes. That brave woman was spared the penalty because her son excelled in many events.

Magnificent strong bodies inspired artists and sculptors. They painted wall pictures and made statues of marble and bronze, so now we can admire the corporal beauty of ancient and eternally young discus thrower, javelin bearer and others.

The Olympic Games had been held for about eleven hundred years, until the emperor Theodosius banned them for religious reasons in 394 A. D.

The revival of the Olympic Games began long time afterwards, in 1892, when a young French teacher Pierre de Coubertin made a public speech before the Union of French sports clubs in Paris. At that time many people in many countries practiced various kinds of sports and games. They wanted to make friends and compete with sportsmen from other lands. Pierre de Coubertin understood the importance of sports which unified peoples of the world and served the cause of peace like in ancient time. On the 23rd of June 1894 the International Congress of amateur sportsmen made an important decision: to revive the Olympic Games and to establish the International Olympic Committee which would be responsible for the administration of the modern Olympic Games. The first Committee consisted of 12 members. Now 82 members of the International Olympic Committee control the affairs of all member countries which joined the Olympic movement.

People all over the world are fond of sports and games. Sport makes people healthy, keeps them fit, more organized and better disciplined. It unites people of different classes and nationalities.

Many people do sports on their personal initiative. They go in for skiing, skating, table tennis, swimming, volleyball, football, bodybuilding, etc. All necessary facilities are provided for them: stadiums, sport grounds, swimming pools, skating rinks, skiing stations, football fields. Sport is paid much attention to in our educational establishments. Gymnastics is a part of children's daily activity in the kindergartens. Physical culture is a compulsory subject at schools and colleges.

Professional sport is also paid much attention to in our republic. There are different sporting societies clubs and complexes. The most famous of them are the Olympic complexes "Luzhniki", "Dynamo" stadium, etc. They are used for international and world competitions. People all over the world are fond of sports and games. Sport makes people healthy, keeps them fit, more organized and better disciplined. It unites people of different classes and nationalities.

Practically all kinds of sports are popular in our republic but football; gymnastics and tennis enjoy the greatest popularity.

As for me, I go in for swimming. It needs mobility, liveliness and much energy. It keeps a person in a good form. I have been swimming for a 5 years. I get a real joy taking part in competitions or a simply swimming with my friends. Certainly, it`s a great distance between my manner of swimming and such favorites as Popov, but I do my training with great pleasure and hope to swim well as our best swimmers do.

Extreme sports are nontraditional sports and activities that require participants to combine athletic skill with pronounced risk.
An extreme sport is a popular term for certain activities which have a high level of danger. These activities often involve speed, height, a high level of physical training. We can call many kinds of sports extreme ones. Extreme sports are rarely sanctioned by schools.
Usually athletes don't have a coach or may hire him later. People in extreme sports complete not only against each other, but also against weather and difficulties and conditions of exact kind of extreme sport.
There are many extreme sports that take place in air, land, and water. For example there are some of them: ski jumping, sky diving ,sky surfing, sky flying, indoor climbing, BMX (bicycle motocross), mountain biking, mountain boarding, skateboarding, snowboarding, powerboat racing, surfing, whitewater kayaking, windsurfing. All these sports need to have special equipment and glasses.
For surfing we need a surfboard and swimming kits. For snowboarding we need a snowboard and special boots to fix them on the board and a suit and also sunglasses that help to look at the snow and a helmet. For BMX sport you need a special not high bike with small wheels. Sportsmen can dress fashionably, usually in shorts and a T-shirt,trainers, if they want they wear a cap.
We can be sure that many new extreme sports will appear soon. Every year more and more people are interested in extreme sports and take active part in them. I'm sure that soon extreme sports will be on a high level.

Sports play an important part in our life as our state of health depends on it. It's popular among both children and grown-ups. The sport helps to bring up physically strong, courageous, strong-willed and energetic people.

People who are interested in sports can be roughly divided into two following groups: those who like doing sports and those who prefer watching sport events or competitions. The first group includes people who prefer to take part in competitions, do morning exercises regularly and train themselves in different clubs and sections. The second group is more numerous and consists of people who like just watching competitions and sports games, listening to sports news and interesting stories about sportsmen. They do not go in for sports.
